Create 5.0.0a2 changelog (#2226)
qutip/qutip: doc/changelog.rst

.. towncrier release notes start

QuTiP 5.0.0a2 (2023-09-06)
==========================

Features
--------

- Add support for different spectra types for bloch_redfield_tensor (#1951)
- Improve qutip import times by setting logger names explicitly. (#1981, by Pieter Eendebak)
- Change the order of parameters in expand_operator (#1991)
- Add `svn` and `solve` to dispatched (#2002)
- Added nm_mcsolve to provide support for Monte-Carlo simulations of master equations with possibly negative rates. The method implemented here is described in arXiv:2209.08958 [quant-ph]. (#2070 by pmenczel)
- Add support for combining bosinic and fermionic HEOM baths (#2089)
- Added __repr__ to QobjEvo (#2111 by lklivingstone)
- Improve print(qutip.settings) by make it shorter (#2113 by tamakoshi2001)
- Create the `trace_oper_ket` operation (#2126)
- Speed up the construction of the RHS of the HEOM solver by a factor of 4x by converting the final step to Cython. (#2128)
- Rewrite the stochastic solver to use the v5 solver interface. (#2131)
- Add `Qobj.get` to extract underlying data in original format. (#2141)
- Add qeye_like and qzero_like (#2153)
- Add capacity to dispatch on ``Data`` (#2157)

> - added fermionic annihilation and creation operators.
>   Closely followed the protocol proposed in the following `source
>   <https://github.com/qutip/qutip/issues/863>`_. (#2166 by khnikhil)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added fermionic annihilation and creation operators. (#2166 by khnikhil)
```
I found the wording of the link to the issue a bit unhelpful (the issue has lots of back and forth discussion about how to correctly do this and not a clear description of what was implemented).

> - changed arguments and apply colorblind_safe to functions in visualization.py (#2170 by Yuji Tamakoshi)
> - changed arguments and applied colorblind_safe to plot_wigner_sphere and matrix_histogram in visualization.py (#2193 by Yuji Tamakoshi)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Changed arguments and applied colorblind_safe to functions in visualization.py (#2170 by Yuji Tamakoshi)
- Changed arguments and applied colorblind_safe to plot_wigner_sphere and matrix_histogram in visualization.py (#2193 by Yuji Tamakoshi)
```

> - Add Dia data layer (#2196)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added Dia data layer which represents operators as multi-diagonal matrices. (#2196)
```
I think this needs to describe a bit more what it is. Please check if my proposed description sounds right.

> - add animation (#2203 by Yuji Tamakoshi)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added support for animated plots. (#2203 by Yuji Tamakoshi)
```
Perhaps a bit more description of which plots can be animated would be good here.

- Improved sampling algorithm for mcsolve (#2218 by Daniel Weiss)

> - Add early end of support in map functions. (#2222)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added support for early termination of map functions. (#2222)
```

Bug Fixes
---------

- Add missing state transformation to floquet_markov_mesolve (#1952 by christian512)
- Added default _isherm value (True) for momentum and position operators. (#2032 by Asier Galicia)
- Changed qutip-notebooks to qutip-tutorials and fixed the typo in the link redirecting to the changelog section in the PR template. (#2107 by Valan Baptist Mathuranayagam)
- Increase missing colorbar padding for matrix_histogram_complex() from 0 to 0.05. (#2181 by SJUW)
- Raise error on insufficient memory. (#2224)

Removals
--------

- Remove qutip.control and replace with qutip_qtrl. (#2116)
- Deleted _solve in countstat.py and used _data.solve. (#2120 by Yuji Tamakoshi)
- Deprecate three_level_atom (#2221)
- Deprecate orbital (#2223)

Documentation
-------------

- Add a guide on Superoperators, Pauli Basis and Channel Contraction. (#1984 by christian512)

> - added info about sec_cutoff to the documentation (#2136 by Gerardo Jose Suarez)
> - added inherited members to API doc of MESolver, SMESolver, SSESolver, NonMarkovianMCSolver (#2167 by Cristian Emiliano Godinez Ramirez)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added information on sec_cutoff to the documentation (#2136 by Gerardo Jose Suarez)
- Added inherited members to API doc of MESolver, SMESolver, SSESolver, NonMarkovianMCSolver (#2167 by Cristian Emiliano Godinez Ramirez)
```

> - Correct grammar in Bloch-Redfield master equation documentation (#2174 by Andrey Rakhubovsky)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Corrected grammar in Bloch-Redfield master equation documentation (#2174 by Andrey Rakhubovsky)
```

Miscellaneous
-------------

- Update scipy version requirement to 1.5+ (#1982 by Pieter Eendebak)

> - added __all__ to qutip/measurements.py and qutip/core/semidefinite.py (#2103 by Rushiraj Gadhvi)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added __all__ to qutip/measurements.py and qutip/core/semidefinite.py (#2103 by Rushiraj Gadhvi)
```

- Restore towncrier check (#2105)
- qutip.ipynbtools.version_table() can now be called without Cython installed (#2110 by Rushiraj Gadhvi)
- Moved HTMLProgressBar from qutip/ipynbtools.py to qutip/ui/progressbar.py (#2112 by Harsh Khilawala)
- Added new argument bc_type to take boundary conditions when creating QobjEvo (#2114 by Avatar Srinidhi P V )
- Remove Windows build warning suppression. (#2119)
- Optimize dispatcher by dispatching on positional only args. (#2135)
- Clean semidefinite (#2138)
- Migrate `transfertensor.py` to solver (#2142)
- Add a test for progress_bar (#2150)
- Enable cython 3 (#2151)

> - add pytest for visualization.py (#2192 by Yuji Tamakoshi)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added tests for visualization.py (#2192 by Yuji Tamakoshi)
```

> - sort args of sphereplot and looks similar to those of plot_spin_distribution (#2219 by Yuji Tamakoshi)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Sorted arguments of sphereplot so that the order is similar to those of plot_spin_distribution (#2219 by Yuji Tamakoshi)
```
